# RIPE-Submission-Sample
This repository contains the data and Stata programs used to generate the quantitative analysis presented in "Contradictory welfare conditioning—differing welfare support for natives versus immigrants," a paper I co-authored with Matthias Diermeier and Judith Niehues of the German Economic Institute and published in the Review of International Political Economy in 2020. The paper can be found [here](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/figure/10.1080/09692290.2020.1780294?scroll=top&needAccess=true).

See below for an abstract of the paper:
> The New Liberal Dilemma predicts that European universal welfare states lose support among natives due to large immigration numbers. This article contributes to the debate regarding the validity of the argument posited by the New Liberal Dilemma by examining the contradictory combination of support for a popular welfare state reform, Universal Basic Income (UBI), and conditionality for immigrants’ access to the welfare state in 20 European countries. Even though UBI is unconditional, two-thirds of UBI supporters want to impose significant conditions on immigrants’ access to the welfare state and thus exhibit contradictory and chauvinistic welfare state preferences. UBI supporters consist of different groups of respondents that are chauvinist. Nativists hold strong anti-immigration attitudes and want to exclude immigrants entirely from welfare benefits, while reciprocity chauvinists are willing to grant immigrants access to the welfare state once immigrants prove themselves to be deserving of benefits by paying taxes for at least a year. In contrast to the welfare magnet hypothesis, inconsistent and chauvinist preferences among UBI supporters are least common in rich European countries with large welfare states. On the macro-level, our findings are independent of countries’ engagement with communism and the share of foreign-born people.
